# CS-221-Project

Cardiovascular  disease  is  a  type  of  diseases  affecting the  cardiovascular  system;  it  generally  involves  narrowed or  blocked  blood  vessels  that  can  lead  to  a  heart  attack, chest  pain  (angina)  or  stroke.  Cardiovascular  disease  is  the number  one  cause  of  death  across  the  world,  accounting for  more  than  17.3  million  death  worldwide  per  year,  and the  death  number  is  projected  to  reach  23.3  million  by 2030.  In  the  U.S  alone,  about  1  of  every  3  deaths  is  due to  cardiovascular  disease,  which  is  more  than  all  forms of  cancer  and  chronic  lower  respiratory  disease  combined. About 92 million American adults are living with some form of cardiovascular disease, and the direct and indirect costs of cardiovascular diseases are estimated to be more than $316 billion per year in the U.S.

Given the prevalence, the deadly nature of cardiovasculardisease  and  the  fact  that  it  can  attack  at  any  time,  it  is important  for  the  doctors  to  provide  timely  and  efficient diagnosis for the patients. Currently, many patients complain about  the  tests  conducted  by  hospitals  for  diagnosis,  which are  both  costly  and,  in  some  cases,  mistaken  and  result  in the delay of starting proper treatments. One solution to this problem is to construct automated diagnostic systems based on  the  large  amount  of  patient  data.  A  good  diagnostic system  can  serve  as  a  second  opinion  and  cross  check on  hospital  diagnosis,  potentially  reducing  the  chance  of mistaken  diagnosis.  Moreover,  it  can  save  both  money  and time, by speeding up the diagnostic process and by avoiding unnecessary  diagnostic  tests  conducted  on  a  patient.  The purpose  of  this  project  is  to  compare  various  classification algorithms  that  can  be  used  to  construct  such  a  diagnostic system, and to explore which predictors are most predictiveof heart disease.

For an overview of the project, see the Project Poster (and the Project Report for more details). 
